---
layout: article
title: Emotions
author: Sansskrithi
--- 

Emotions are indeed a very difficult subject to understand, many have tried to define them and today it’s my turn so, these are solely my opinions.  Ecstasy, depression, envy, malice are just a few examples. Generally, people feel that emotions bring in a lot of troubles too and hence feel emotions are not needed. But emotions define us, in fact that is what differentiates us from robots. But the real question here is, do emotions entangle us or liberate us? Usually, when a person is angry, they tend to make spontaneous decisions which may end up either good or bad and may or may not regret it. So you might ask, what use does anger bring us? Anger is caused because YOU feel that something is good. For instance, when you like a dress and your mom disagrees with you, you get angry at her because you both do not line up. You are exclusive here, meaning you are taking into consideration just your point. But when you are inclusive, that is when you take in everyone’s opinion and then come to a conclusion then getting angry is hard as you have considered everyone. Anger overflows because you have not included something or someone as a part of you. When the whole existence is included in you, you are liberated. Whereas in exclusion you feel separated and trapped.

Fear, again, is one thing that sure is inevitable. People have fear because they have this question in themselves “what will happen to me?”. Fear is caused because of excessive imaginations. We may fear for everything and 99% of it may not even come true. To avoid fear, you need to transcend your imaginations to your limitations. Fear is just some horror movie you are producing in your mind. This too can make you feel either entangled or liberated. When you fear something and never muster up the courage to do it, it makes you feel enmeshed. But instead, you could muster up the courage and  the audacity to go do that which will make you feel unshackled. Coming to greed. Greed is when you have the urge to want something that another person has. It is both good and bad. When you work towards having it, put hard work and work for it and receive it, it makes you feel emancipated. But at the same time, when you just keep on ranting about what you don’t have and what others have, it will just make you feel shacked. If you see, in all these cases, emotions can either trap you or liberate you. Its all on how you choose to act upon it.