---
layout: article
title: The New 2022 F1 Regulations
author: Venkat
---

This article is a continuation of last edition. Read it to understand this article better!<br>
[Last Edition's Article](/edition7/f1car)<br>


The 2022 season of Formula 1 holds the greatest regulation changes ever introduced in the history of the sport. We discussed about the technical aspects of the 2021 cars which have been evolved over from 2014. The various changes in each element of the car is discussed in-depth in this article.

The front of the car has been geared with much simpler aerodynamical elements. The endplate has now been re-designed to be much taller than the previous sets. It also curves slightly towards the tyres of the car. The narrow strip of carbon fibre supporting the front wing endplates have now been mandatorily made to be wider.

Tyres are one of the most important elements of an F1 car. They've gone through significant changes this year. The rims of the tyres are now 18 inches long as opposed to the previous 13 inches length. I think this is an important strategical move as the tyres may now wear out faster and make the whole race pretty crucial. These 18 inch long tyres were also seen in active use in the F2 2021 season. Above these brand spanking new 18 inch tyres are some winglets which are used for sending those vortexes over the tyres and under the winglets. The vortices are technically a side effect producing aerodynamic lift or downforce as its more commonly called. As a result of this, the car produces increased downforce which may help to increase the acceleration levels slightly.

One thing that has not changed from the F1 2021 car in the front is the halo, the safety protective device responsible for protecting the driver from any major accidents. The halo is made out of Titanium and weighs about 7 kilograms. This device has not had the slightest of changes from 2021.
