---
layout: article
title: 7th August
author: Gitangali
---

Gazing at the breath-taking sunset, through the French window, sat Oliver. Every year on the 7th of August, he visited the - Café on the Rocks. No one ever knew why it was so special to him. The seat right at the end was always his place. He sat there in solitude as he would gaze at the beautiful sunset and the silhouette of the Eiffel tower; and reflect on his life. From the age of 8, he and his parents would visit the café on the 7th of august, on Oliver's Birthday; And the seat at the very end, the seat for 3, was where they sat every time they visited. One night, it was raining heavily. That day was his 17th birthday. Oliver and his parents decided to visit the café a little later that day. As they crossed the busy streets of Paris, they reached the other end of the neighbourhood and entered the café. "let's celebrate! finally!". His parents went and sat down at their signature place- the very end. Oliver took off his raincoat and placed it on the rack. As he was heading towards the end, he noticed a large bullet-like shaped object heading towards the end of the café where his parents were sitting. "Mom, dad watch out!!!" he shouted on the top of his lungs. But it was too late. The damage had been done. All he was able to do was save himself. That night, he walked home all alone, drenched entirely in rain. After a few years, the café was rebuilt and renovated. From that day on, every year, on the 7th of August, he visited the same café, sat in the same signature place and sipped a cup of coffee and gazed out into the world thinking about this very day, a day he would never forget; Both the beginning and the end of that day…The only thought that kept going on in his head was why he shouldn't have been there in his parent’s place or with them when the incident happened. The only thought that kept going on in his head was why he shouldn't have been there in his parent’s place…